_Updated: 15/01/2025_

## **Purpose**

The Euphrosyne platform is the digital data platform of the New AGLAE
particle accelerator dedicated to heritage science. These data are open,
shared and made available to the national and international scientific
community after an embargo period. This platform offers:

1/ access to tools enabling New AGLAE FIXLAB users to prepare their
experiments in advance, and to gain remote access not only to their data
sets in complete confidentiality and security, but also to the software
tools needed to process these data.

2/ a catalog and warehouse of the data produced by New AGLAE on heritage
objects, and a web portal for digital access named DIGILAB in the rest
of the document.

The Euphrosyne platform is undergoing continuous improvement and uses
open-source solutions wherever possible.

All use of the Euphrosyne platform, by FIXLAB and DIGILAB users, is
subject to compliance with the present General Terms of Use (GTU).

Is defined as :

**FIXLAB Administrator**: any member of the AGLAE team with rights to
manage the various FIXLAB user accounts and projects created on the
platform. They cannot add a Project Member without the written agreement
of the Project Leader. The FIXLAB administrator provides scientific and
technical support to experimental teams in preparing their experiments
before they arrive at AGLAE, and checks that the metadata entered
correspond to the actual experimental conditions. Then, once the
experiment is complete, FIXLAB administrators ensure that the raw data
are uploaded to the cloud in their entirety and integrity, that the
virtual machines are running correctly, and that the latest versions of
data processing software are available. The FIXLAB administrator is
also, together with the DIGILAB administrator, co-curator of the data
sets.

**DIGILAB Administrator:** any person authorized to manage the platform,
in charge of DIGILAB access and data set maintenance. They check the
status of data and the display of this status in the Euphrosyne catalog,
and update it if necessary. Together with the FIXLAB administrator, the
DIGILAB administrator is also the data set co-curator.

**API (web):** structured interface enabling automatic interaction with
a third-party information system, usually including on-demand data
retrieval.

**Administrative authority:** any public or private person entrusted
with a public service mission (article L. 300-2 of the Code des
relations entre le public et l\'administration, CRPA).

**Contributor:** any person with an account on the Euphrosyne platform,
authorized to deposit, document or publish a dataset.

**Curator**: any person who curates datasets by checking the metadata
and data files deposited on the Euphrosyne platform. He or she may
suggest modifications to improve the documentary quality of the
datasets.

**Raw or primary data:** data recorded at the New AGLAE facility, which
may have undergone pre-processing to make them readable by data
processing software specific to ion beam analysis datasets.

**Processed data or secondary data**: data that has undergone one or
more software processes, according to a specific, well-referenced and
traceable methodology. These data may have been published.

**Experimental team:** all those who have submitted a FIXLAB experiment
proposal to AGLAE. It comprises at least one Project Leader and one or
more Project Members.

**FIXLAB Project Leader:** leader of a research project for which a
proposal has been submitted. This user profile has full rights in its
space, including the right to invite collaborators to the space
dedicated to the project.

**FIXLAB Project Member:** a person who participates in a research
project for which beamtime has been requested but who does not manage
the project. This profile has the same rights as the project leader but
cannot invite anyone to enter the space dedicated to the project.

**Public information:** information contained in documents produced or
received by administrative Authorities, which may be communicated to any
person or which has been the subject of public dissemination in
accordance with articles L. 312-1 to L. 312-1-2 of the CRPA and over
which third parties do not hold intellectual property rights (articles
L. 321-1 et seq.).

**Dataset:** coherent set of information or resources (data files,
explanation files, APIs, links, etc.) and metadata (presentation,
publication date, keywords, geographical/temporal coverage, etc.).

**Organization:** any legal entity (administrative authorities,
associations, companies) or informal group (working groups, business
clusters, sectors).

**Embargo period:** period, from the end of the beam time allocated to a
FIXLAB experiment, during which access to the raw data collected is
limited to the experimental team (Project Leader and Project Members).
This period is two (2) years by default, with the possibility of
extending it at the request of the Project Leader alone.

**Re-use:** use by any natural or legal person (Re-user) of published
data for purposes other than those for which it was produced or
received.

**DIGILAB User:** any natural or legal person who wishes to access and
re-use data produced by New AGLAE without being the author.

**FIXLAB user:** any natural or legal person taking part in an
experiment on the accelerator. They are either Project Leader or Project
Member. A FIXLAB user undertakes to be a _de facto_ DIGILAB contributor
and is automatically considered as a potential DIGILAB user.

**VM:** acronym for _Virtual Machine_; a fully virtualized computing
environment in the cloud that runs its own operating system (OS) and
benefits from the same equipment as a physical computer: CPU and/or GPU,
RAM memory, hard disk and network card.

## **Features**

Use of the Euphrosyne platform is free.

#### Features available to FIXLAB users

Any New AGLAE user can feed or update the Euphrosyne platform by
publishing datasets and enriching them with metadata and documents
(readme, protocols, etc.).

> FIXLAB users who have submitted a beam request to New AGLAE for a
> research project undertake to make available :

- the metadata of the experiment carried out via the online data
  catalogue as soon as the experiment is completed

- raw data at the end of the embargo period

- the processed data after publication.

Once their project has been positively evaluated by the committee of
experts, FIXLAB users will receive an invitation to create an account on
the Euphrosyne platform. This registration is nominative and not that of
the entity or legal entity that the user represents.

For more details, see the _Privacy_ section of this document.

Once the account has been validated, various functions are immediately
available to FIXLAB users, depending on their profile:

- as a Project Leader, they can create their project and invite their
  colleagues to the dedicated area

- as a Project Member, they can access the area dedicated to the
  project in which they have been invited to participate.

- Project Leader and Project Members can prepare the experiment in
  advance, access primary and secondary data remotely as well as the
  processing software tools made available by the FIXLAB
  administrators on the VMs.

At the end of the experiment, the raw data is uploaded to the cloud and
made available to the Project Leader and Members. When the data is
uploaded, the project metadata and the name of the Project Leader are
published in the online data catalogue. This latter information can be
withdrawn on request, in accordance with the RGPD (see the _Privacy_
section of the Terms and Conditions).

One month before the end of the embargo period, the FIXLAB Project
Leader receives an e-mail reminding him/her of the date. This date may
be extended by one year upon justified request to the FIXLAB
administrators.

Once the embargo period has expired, the raw data can be accessed online
under a CC-BY 4.0 licence
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

#### Consultation and downloading of data by a DIGILAB user

Consulting or downloading the metadata made available on the Euphrosyne
platform does not require any prior registration, is anonymous and free
of charge.

The raw data accessible is made available under the CC-BY 4.0 licence
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Requests for access to raw data are made via an online form on the
Euphrosyne platform. There is no selection process for these requests,
all requests will be processed and access to the data will be granted
without discrimination or prior assessment.

The data must be cited in any work or research product that uses them by
including the DOI (Digital Object Identifier) in its clickable form
https://doi.org/xxxx.

Any DIGILAB User may share links to the datasets, giving priority to
links of the https://doi.org/xxxx type. They can also directly contact
the FIXLAB Project Leader who has published a dataset.

Any DIGILAB User can participate in quality control of the Euphrosyne
platform by reporting (to euphrosyne-support@culture.gouv.fr) in
particular content that is not intended to appear (illegal or contrary
to the GTC).

Any DIGILAB User may also be contacted as part of our quality approach
based on continuous improvement.

## **Code of conduct and responsibilities of Users**

#### Publication of a dataset

**General rules**

The Euphrosyne platform makes available research data published by the
experimental teams, which can be downloaded via the platform\'s WEB
interface.

The Euphrosyne platform is not intended to disseminate data for
advertising, promoting private interests, contravening public order or,
more generally, illegal. The administrators of the Euphrosyne platform
may, if necessary, without prior notice, delete or make impossible
access to such data.

Euphrosyne\'s DIGILAB administrators encourage FIXLAB Project Leaders to
ensure the reliability and documentation of the data they publish.
FIXLAB Project Leaders update the data they publish, in accordance with
article L. 312-1-1 of the CRPA.

FIXLAB Project Leaders are solely responsible for the data, metadata or
content they publish on the Euphrosyne platform.

**Personal data**

Datasets containing personal data, i.e. data, including non-nominative
data, allowing the re-identification of individuals, may not be
distributed by the Euphrosyne platform.

The FIXLAB Project Leader publishing the Dataset is responsible for the
datasets it publishes on the Euphrosyne platform and ensures that this
publication complies with current legislation. He/she takes all
necessary measures to this end.

#### Data covered by intellectual property rights

**Licenses**

The raw data sets are available under a CC-BY 4.0 licence

(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Use of the contact address euphrosyne-support@culture.gouv.fr

The contact address is used to contact the Administrators of the
Euphrosyne platform and is not intended to receive requests relating to
the individual situation of a user in his/her relations with an
Administrative Authority. Nor is it a direct means of contacting a
FIXLAB Project Leader.

## **Commitments and responsibilities**

#### Quality of service and facilities offered

Subject to the provisions of the following paragraph, the AGLAE team and
the SNUM of the Ministry of Culture endeavour to guarantee the
availability of the digital platform.

However, the team in charge of it also reserves the right to develop,
modify or suspend the Euphrosyne platform, without prior notice, for
maintenance reasons or for any other reason it deems necessary. The
unavailability of the Euphrosyne platform does not give the right to any
compensation.

Euphrosyne offers FIXLAB experimental teams access to their data sets
via the web interface of the Euphrosyne platform. It is also the gateway
to virtual machines (VMs) enabling users to process their data produced
at the New AGLAE accelerator using _ad hoc_ processing software.

Euphrosyne gives DIGILAB users access to the data catalogue, which
consists solely of dataset metadata, via the WEB interface. A search
engine is used to browse the datasets. The DIGILAB user can place the
accessible datasets of interest in a basket and request access to the
datasets in the basket. The DIGILAB user receives a link to download the
data.

Euphrosyne administrators undertake to take all necessary precautions to
preserve the integrity of the data sets made available, and in
particular to prevent them from being distorted or damaged.

For the sole purpose of guaranteeing better information for the DIGILAB
User, through better referencing, and without ever altering the meaning,
Euphrosyne\'s DIGILAB administrators reserve the right to modify the
metadata associated with a dataset.

#### Responsibilities of DIGILAB administrators

The DIGILAB Administrators do not carry out any _a priori_ control on
the publications of Administrative Authorities or Contributors/FIXLAB
Project Leaders on the Euphrosyne platform. As soon as they become aware
of illegal content, the Administrators act quickly to remove this data
or make access to it impossible. Any User may report content that does
not comply with these Terms of Use by sending an e-mail to
euphrosyne-support@culture.gouv.fr with the subject line: Euphrosyne -
reporting.

The administrators of Euphrosyne reserve the right to delete or make
inaccessible, without notice :

- Contributions unrelated to the activity of the AGLAE accelerator and
  / or the Euphrosyne platform, published for the purpose of hindering
  its proper functioning, advertising or promotion, propaganda or
  proselytizing and any contribution in violation of laws and
  regulations;

- the profile of a FIXLAB or DIGILAB User and refuse certain persons
  access to the Euphrosyne platform, in case of violation of these
  Terms of Use.

**Transparency of dataset ranking**

The order in which datasets are ranked is derived from the ElasticSearch
search engine implemented on the Euphrosyne platform.

By default, datasets are displayed in \"last modified\" order. Each user
can decide to change the display order by ascending or descending order
of the dataset title.

Administrators reserve the right to highlight certain content through
the sections of the Euphrosyne platform.

#### Changes to the Terms of Use

The terms of these Terms of Use may be amended at any time, without
notice, based on changes to the Euphrosyne platform, changes in
legislation or for any other reason deemed necessary by the Euphrosyne
administrators.

The User will be asked to accept the Terms of Use again to continue to
use the Euphrosyne platform, when changes to the TOU are applied.

## **Privacy policy**

#### Personal data

Consultation of published metadata does not require registration or
authentication. Consultation and downloading of certain published data
sets requires authentication.

The personal data collected by the Euphrosyne platform is the
information (surname, first name, professional email) linked to the
creation of the User account on the Euphrosyne platform. The account
page is not referenced by the platform search engine.

The FIXLAB and DIGILAB administrators of Euphrosyne undertake to take
all necessary measures to ensure the security and confidentiality of the
email of the User account holder. It is never disclosed to third
parties, except in cases provided by law.

This data is subject to data processing implemented by the publisher of
the Euphrosyne platform, responsible for processing. This processing is
recorded in the register of the publisher of the Euphrosyne platform.

The purpose of this data is the implementation and proper functioning of
the Euphrosyne platform and the processing of requests made via the
contact form. The purpose of data linked to a user account is to allow
the posting of data sets. The legal basis for this processing is the
performance of the publisher\'s public interest mission, in particular
through the creation and maintenance of informative websites.

The retention period is :

- One (1) year for data collected via the visitor register ;

- as long as the account is active for data linked to the User
  account.

This data is mandatory for the proper functioning of the Euphrosyne
platform (information related to cookies) and the management of your
user account on the Euphrosyne platform.

The recipients of the data are authorized personnel involved in the
implementation of the Euphrosyne platform and services offered. The
information collected will be subject to external communication only for
the needs related to the management of the Euphrosyne platform (eg
audience measurement) or to meet legal and regulatory obligations.

You have a right of access, rectification, opposition on legitimate
grounds, limitation and deletion relative to all data concerning you
under the conditions provided by Law No. 78-17 of 6 January 1978
relating to data, files and freedoms and by the General Regulation on
Data Protection No. 2016/679. You have the right to give general or
specific instructions relating to the retention, deletion and
communication after your death of personal data concerning you in
accordance with articles 32-I-6° and 40-1 of the amended law of 6
January 1978. You also have the right to lodge a complaint with a
supervisory authority such as the Commission Nationale de
l\'Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL).

You may exercise these rights by contacting the publisher of the
Euphrosyne platform (with the exception of the right to lodge a
complaint which must be exercised directly with a supervisory authority)
by email at <euphrosyne-support@culture.gouv.fr>.

#### Cookies

The Euphrosyne platform deposits cookies to measure audience (number of
visits, pages viewed), respecting the conditions of exemption from
consent of the Internet user defined by the recommendation \"Cookies\"
of the Commission Nationale Informatique et Libertés (CNIL); the
Euphrosyne platform uses Matomo, an open-source software to measure web
statistics. Thus, the tracking information of each visitor is anonymized
and is not shared with third parties.

## **Reference texts**

Book III of the Code on relations between the public and the
administrationLaw no. 78-17 of 6 January 1978 on information technology,
files and civil libertiesLaw no. 2004-575 of 21 June 2004 on confidence
in the digital economyLaw no. 2016-1321 of 7 October 2016 on a digital
republic

## **Legal information**

**MC-C2RMF (Ministry of Culture - Centre de Recherche et de Restauration
des Musées de France)**

Palais du Louvre - Porte des Lions

14 quai F. Mitterrand 75001 Paris

**Publication** **manager**: Claire Pacheco, Research Department, head
of the AGLAE+ group.

**Contact**

If you have any questions about these general terms and conditions of
use, you can write to us at the following address

New AGLAE - Euphrosyne

C2RMF - Palais du Louvre 14 quai F. Mitterrand

75001 Paris

<euphrosyne-support@culture.gouv.fr>
